Lab 1 Worksheet

1. What if 12 bits were used to store a signed integer. What is the biggest/smallest possible integer?
	- For the largest integer it would be 2^12 or 4096 and the smallest number would be 2048 because the first bit position would represent the negative sign so it would be 2^11.

2. Think about possible values and their range, say what type of variable would be suitable for the following, and suggest a name for it too. 

For example: the temperature of a room in degrees Fahrenheit. Room temperature is likely to vary between say 50 degrees F and 100 degrees F,  but it can take any value in between including non-integers, e.g 71.19 F, so the type must be float or double depending on the accuracy required. A suitable variable name would be roomTemp. 
	
(i) The number of pages in a book; 
	- Since pages dont have in between values (1.5,2.3,etc) I would use the variable type integer and name it pageCount.

(ii) The number of atoms in a book; 
	- Atoms are integers themselves but the amount of them is where it would require you to use the variable type of Long. If it exceeds the size of Long you can also use BigInteger. I would name this variable atomCount.
 
(iii) The length of a side of a triangle in inches; 
	- I would use the variable type float for this purpose because measurements in inches are usually not perfect whole numbers. I would name the variable triangleLength.

(iv) Your name; 
	- For my name I would use the variable type String and would name it myName. 

(v) Whether or not a nucleus has decayed; 
	- I would use a boolean to determine whether or not it has decayed. I would call it isDecaying.
 
(vi) The probability that it could have decayed. 
	- When I think of probability I think of percetage so I would use a float again. I would call it chanceofDecay.
 
3. Start to do a little java programming!
 
	Follow the example of the Hello.java program and do some testing of Java int and float.
	Write a short class called “Arithmetic” that in its main method does the following:
		Creates 4 local variables
			Two ints (call them a and b)
			Two floats (call them x and y)
		Performs the following arithmetic operations on every combination of two of these 
		and output using System.out.println each of the results
			Addition
			Division (in both directions)



